procedures: mounting secrets as a file or as an environment variable (#2083)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/end-user-guide/partials/proc_mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-into-a-workspace-container.adoc

WARNING: On 
ifeval::["{project-context}" == "che"]
{kubernetes} older than v1.13 and
endif::[]

> OpenShift {ocp3-ver}, secrets mounted as a file override volume mounts defined in the devfile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenShift {ocp3-ver}, secrets mounted as files override volume mounts defined in the devfile.
```

> In {prod-short}, you can mount the {platforms-name} secret from your {orch-namespace} as a file in single-workspace or multiple-workspace containers.

Reviewer: What was wrong with the orig. version? In fact, I think it was more descriptive. The new formulation only vaguely suggests that something *can* be done.

Author: I already answered this question in the parallel comment in modules/end-user-guide/partials/proc_mounting-a-secret-as-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container.adoc .

.Prerequisites

* A running instance of {prod-short}. See {link-installing-an-instance}.

.Procedure

. Create a new secret in the {platforms-namespace} where a new workspace is deployed.

> . Match the secret's `labels` to the set of labels configured in the `che.workspace.provision.secret.labels` property of {prod-short}.

Reviewer: Don't anthropomorphize by using the possessive. IBM SG, pg. 26.
```suggestion
. Match the `labels` of the secret to the set of labels configured in the `che.workspace.provision.secret.labels` property of {prod-short}.
```

Author: @rkratky Our IBM SG pagination is different. May I ask which IBM SG version are you using? I'm using ibm_style_062121_Q2_2021, page 59:

Use the 's construction for the possessive form when it provides the clearest and most direct wording.
✗ Less direct: If the object is a child node, set the isLeaf property of the object to true.
✓ More direct: If the object is a child node, set the object's isLeaf property to true.
Use an alternative construction for the possessive form when it provides the clearest and most direct wording.
Alternative constructions include making a possessive noun an adjective or using a possessive noun in a prepositional
phrase.
✗ The computer's keyboard's Alt key stopped working.
✓ The Alt key on the computer keyboard stopped working.

Author: @rkratky https://source.redhat.com/groups/public/ccs/ccs_folder/ibm_style_guide

> . Match the `labels` of the secret to the set of labels configured in the `che.workspace.provision.secret.labels` property of {prod-short}.

Reviewer 2: The information about the default value is lost.

. Define the default behavior for mounting secrets in the `automount-workspace-secret` annotation, which takes a boolean value:

> ** `'true'` enables automatic mounting into all workspace containers.

Reviewer: Does the value really need to be quotes?

Author: @rkratky Have a look, these values are in quotes in four examples (possibly written by the same author): https://www.eclipse.org/che/docs/che-7/end-user-guide/mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-or-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container/ If this doesn't seem right, we can of course double-check with SMEs.

Reviewer: I suggest you do check it with an SME because it seems odd. If the quotes don't need to be there, then remove them from the other examples, too.

Reviewer 3: Quote:
`The keys and the values in the map must be strings. In other words, you cannot use numeric, boolean, list or other types for either the keys or the values.`
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/

** `'false'` disables automatic mounting into all workspace containers. (To mount a secret, a user must request it in the devfile component by using the `automountWorkspaceSecrets:true` property.)
. Set a `mount-path` for the file.
. Include the `mount-as: file` annotation.

> . Set the filename in the secret's `data` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the filename in the `data` field of the secret.
```

> . Set the filename in the `data` field of the secret.

Reviewer 2: Missing a step explaining how to encode the secret in base64. See example in https://www.eclipse.org/che/docs/che-7/end-user-guide/provisioning-the-jetbrains-offline-activation-code/.

+

> NOTE: The {orch-name} secret can contain several `data` items. The names of `data` items must match the name of the secret's file mounted into the container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The {orch-name} secret can contain several `data` items. The names of the `data` items must match the name of the secret file mounted into the container.
```

.Example: Mounting a secret as a file
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: mvn-settings-secret
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: che.eclipse.org <1>
    app.kubernetes.io/component: workspace-secret <2>
  annotations:
    che.eclipse.org/automount-workspace-secret: 'true' <3>
    che.eclipse.org/mount-path: {prod-home}/.m2/ <4>
    che.eclipse.org/mount-as: file <5>
data:
  settings.xml: __<base64-encoded_value>__ <6>
----
<1> Matches the configured default label.
<2> Matches the configured default label.
<3> Enables automatic mounting into all workspace containers.
<4> Sets the mount path of the file for all workspace containers.
<5> Mounts the secret as a file.

> <6> Sets the `settings.xml` filename.

Reviewer: IBM SG, pg. 329.
```suggestion
<6> Sets the `settings.xml` file name.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Missing a verification step.

.Additional resources
ifeval::["{project-context}" == "che"]
* For more information about creating secrets, see link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#creating-a-secret[Kubernetes Documentation].
endif::[]

> * xref:mounting-a-secret-as-a-file-or-an-environment-variable-into-a-workspace-container.adoc#the-use-of-annotations-in-the-process-of-mounting-a-secret-into-a-workspace-container_{context}[]

Reviewer 2: Deep link need a title in `[]`.

ifeval::["{project-context}" == "che"]

> {platforms-name} older than v1.13 and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{kubernetes} older than v1.13 and
```

endif::[]
OpenShift {ocp3-ver}, secrets mounted as a file override volume mounts defined in the devfile.

In {prod-short}, you can mount the {platforms-name} secret from your {orch-namespace} as a file in single-workspace or multiple-workspace containers.

.Prerequisites

* A running instance of {prod-short}. See {link-installing-an-instance}.

.Procedure

. Create a new secret in the {platforms-namespace} where a new workspace is deployed.
. Match the secret's `labels` to the set of labels configured in the `che.workspace.provision.secret.labels` property of {prod-short}.
. Define the default behavior for mounting secrets in the `automount-workspace-secret` annotation, which takes a boolean value:
** `'true'` enables automatic mounting into all workspace containers.
** `'false'` disables automatic mounting into all workspace containers. To mount a secret, a user must request it in the devfile component by using the `automountWorkspaceSecrets:true` property.
. Set a `mount-path` for the file.
. Include the `mount-as: file` annotation.
. Set the filename in the secret's `data` field.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+
```

ifeval::["{project-context}" == "che"]
{platforms-name} older than v1.13 and
endif::[]

> OpenShift {ocp3-ver}, secrets mounted as a file override volume mounts defined in the devfile.

Reviewer 4: Conditionalization and attributes are very susceptible to minor errors and oversights. Please verify the output to make sure it does what you expect. Here, it seems like there might be an issue with "On Kubernetes or OpenShift older than v1.13 and OpenShift 3.11,..."

Author: @rolfedh, many thanks for catching this. I started checking the output when I discovered the docs previews.

> A secret can be mounted from the user's {orch-namespace} as a file in single-workspace or multiple-workspace containers of {prod-short}.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As a <name of user's role - e.g., developer>, you can mount a secret from your {orch-namespace} as a file in single-workspace or multiple-workspace containers of {prod-short}.
```
- " of {prod-short}." sounds odd. Is there a more common way or saying the same thing or can it be removed?
- Can we address the user more directly? IBM SG states:
```
Second person
As much as possible, use the second person, which is indicated by the personal pronoun you. The second person focuses on the reader.
> When you create a database, you must provide a unique name.

To instruct the user to perform an action, use the imperative mood. The subject of an imperative sentence is understood to be you.
> To begin processing, press Enter.
```

Reviewer 4: In other words, avoid using "the user" to address the user.

Reviewer 4: On the other hand, if the audience is an administrator who is configuring the environment for users, it might make sense to talk about "the user" in the third person.  It can help to name the audience in the opening phrase: "As an administrator, you can..."

Author: @rolfedh I've rephrased this as follows: "In {prod-short}, you can mount a secret from your {orch-namespace} as a file in single-workspace or multiple-workspace containers."

.Prerequisites

> * A running instance of {prod-short}.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* A running instance of {prod-short}. See {link-installing-an-instance}.
```

Reviewer 4: Can we combine these two phrases or remove the cross-reference altogether?

Reviewer 5: That combination is good.

Author: Fixed this in both files.

+

> To install an instance of {prod-short}, see {link-installing-an-instance}.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Author: Already fixed this according to our other conversation.

.Procedure

> To mount a secret as a file, complete the following steps as shown in the next example:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
Can we remove this phrase?  RH SSG https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#lead-in-sentences states "Do not use a lead-in sentence in the Prerequisites or Procedure sections of a module unless it is necessary to aid navigation or add clarity."

Author: Removed. Thank you.

. Create a new {platforms-name} secret in the {platforms-namespace} of the {prod-short} workspace.

> . Match the secret's `labels` to the set of labels configured in the `che.workspace.provision.secret.labels` property of {prod-short}.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Match the `labels` in the secret with the labels in the `che.workspace.provision.secret.labels` property.
```
- Can we simplify this phrase and improve its clarity, or does this suggestion remove too much information? 
- Also, is it obvious how to match labels in the software?

Author: Well, here it doesn't seem to be the case that the `labels` are **in** the secret (these labels identify the secret wherever they appear), so "Match the `labels` in the secret" is likely not going to work here. "Match the `labels` of/for the secret ..." could work, but at that point there would be little distinction between "secret's labels" and "labels of the secret", and the latter would also be longer and make it harder to follow the whole sentence.

. Define the default behavior for mounting secrets in the `automount-workspace-secret` annotation, which takes a boolean value:
** `'true'` enables automatic mounting into all workspace containers.
** `'false'` disables automatic mounting into all workspace containers. To mount a secret, a user must request it in the devfile component by using the `automountWorkspaceSecrets:true` property.
. Set a `mount-path` for the file.
. Include the `mount-as: file` annotation.

> . Add the file's name in the secret's `data` field.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Add the file name in the `data` field of the secret.
```

Author: Fixed. Thanks.

> NOTE: A {orch-name} secret can contain several `data` items. The names of `data` items must match the name of the secret's file mounted into the container.

Reviewer 4: Does `{orch-name}` render as OpenShift sometimes? When that happens, the indefinite article would need to become "An." It might be easier to replace "A" with "The" or remove `{orch-name}` altogether if it is obvious from the context.

Author: @rolfedh Great catch! Thank you, Rolfe! Fixed.

.Example: Mounting a secret as a file
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: mvn-settings-secret
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: che.eclipse.org <1>
    app.kubernetes.io/component: workspace-secret <2>
  annotations:
    che.eclipse.org/automount-workspace-secret: 'true' <3>
    che.eclipse.org/mount-path: {prod-home}/.m2/ <4>
    che.eclipse.org/mount-as: file <5>
data:
  settings.xml: __<base64-encoded_value>__ <6>
----
<1> Default label.
<2> Default label.

> <3> Enabled automatic mounting into all workspace containers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<3> Enables automatic mounting into all workspace containers.
```

Author: Fixed. Thanks.

> <4> Mount path, `{prod-home}/.m2/`, set for the file in all workspace containers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<4> Sets the mount path of the file for all workspace containers.
```

Author: Fixed. Thanks.

> <5> Included `mount-as: file` annotation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<5> Mounts the secret as a file. 
```
Are the other options described in a separate reference document?

Author: @rolfedh Actually, all of these are described in the procedure steps that precede the example, and that's why I phrased the callouts this way. Also, I tried to make the structure of the callouts more or less parallel. This particular callout is phrased because of step 5 ("Include the `mount-as: file` annotation") in the procedure, which in the example becomes "Included `mount-as: file` annotation."

Author: Fixed. Thanks.

> <6> Name of the file to mount, `settings.xml`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<6> The name and encoding of the file to mount.
```
For callouts, it is probably better to provide an explanation without repeating the content of the line being called out.

Author: @rolfedh My reasoning for quoting line content: (a) to more clearly link the content of the example with the procedure steps, and (b) to emphasize a specific string on the marked line.

> .Procedure

Reviewer 4: Use a separate module for each procedure.

Author: OK, will do.

> Optionally, to override the mount path of a secret for a workspace component, edit the devfile as follows:

Reviewer 4: Help your audience understand *why* they would choose one procedure over the other.
